Starting to learn golang.


following the tutorial on the official website (go.dev)


1. Get started with Go

    (I already have installed Go compiler)

    - create a new folder called 'hello':
    > mkdir hello
    > cd hello


    - Enable dependency tracking for your code:
    a go.mod file tracks the modules provided by others (probably similar concept to package.json).
    should be include in the repository.

    to create this file:
    > go mod init example/hello (yes, the tutorial was inside hello directory)

    - create a hello.go file (did not exactly say where, i'm assuming in hello directory)
    in this file:
    a main package is declared. all files in the same directory belong to it.
    fmt package is imported. it contains functions to work with text. part of standard library of Go.
    a main function is declared. when the main package is ran, the main function will be executed by default. # IMPORTANT

    - to run the code:
    > go run .


    Calling external packages:
    they can be found at: pkg.go.dev

    we'll import this 'rsc.io/quote' module and use it in hello.go:
    (upon saving, vscode moved the import statement of this module next to the fmt import statement, it coupled them together)

    - run the following command to aquire the modules (Go will do something called Authenticating the modules)
    > go mod tidy (looks like Go downloads these modules)
    a go.sum file is generated.

    - now run the code:
    > go run .

    Don't communicate by sharing memory, share memory by communicating. (this message was printed)


2. Create a Go module

    In this tutorial, we'll create two modules, the first will be imported by the other one. the second is a caller which will use the first.

    Go code is grouped into packages, and packages are grouped into modules.

    - create a greetings directory
    > mkdir greetings
    > cd greetings

    - create a new module by using go mod init command,
    If you publish a module, this must be a path from which your module can be downloaded by Go tools. IMPORTANT
    > go mod init example.com/greetings

    go mod init will create a go.mod file, this file keeps the track of dependencies of your code.
    so far, it only includes the name of your module, and the Go version.

    the name of this package is greetings, in it, there will be a function named Hello, that will return a string
    In Go, the := operator is a shortcut for declaring and initializing a variable in one line:

        message := fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)

    Taking the long way, you might have written this as:

        var message string
        message = fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)

    Use the fmt package's Sprintf function to create a greeting message.
    (basically a formatted string)

3. Call your code from another module

    Moved greetings folder to a new top-level folder, "using-go-modules"
    > cd "using-go-modules"
    > mkdir hello
    > cd hello

    > go mod init example.com/hello

    - in hello folder, create a hello.go file, in this file we'll call the Hello function from the greetings module

    For production use, you’d publish the example.com/greetings module from its repository (with a module path that reflected its published location), where Go tools could find it to download it. For now, because you haven't published the module yet, you need to adapt the example.com/hello module so it can find the example.com/greetings code on your local file system.

    To do that, use the go mod edit command to edit the example.com/hello module to redirect Go tools from its module path (where the module isn't) to the local directory (where it is).

    > go mod edit -replace example.com/greetings=../greetings
    (the go.mod file in hello dir, must be now include a replace directive)

    - now run go mod tidy command to synchronize
    > go mod tidy

    - finally run the code (you must be in hello dir)
    > go run .


4. Return and handle an error

    In this part, we will throw some errors in greetings module, and then will handle them in caller module (hello)

    in the greetings, we declared a Hello function, that can return either a string, or an error
    in hello, we call the Hello from greetings, (with an empty string as input)
    And capture both possible return values of this function. (Yes both)
    The error will be raised, we'll log it, and then exit.
    (Do not forget to configure the go.mod to use local file system, before running the program)
    (in hello dir)
    > go mod edit -replace example.com/greetings=../greetings
    > go mod tidy

    the result should be exit status 1

    That's common error handling in Go: Return an error as a value so the caller can check for it. IMPORTANT

    (I tried providing a name, and the program ran with no problems)


5. Return a random greeting
    
    In this part, instead of returning a single message every time, we'll return one of several predefined messages.
    (this part, will update "error-handling" folder)

    we'll use something called a Go slice. (it's like an array)

    we'll add a new function to greetings.go called randomFormat.
    Note that this function starts with a lowercase letter, making it accesible only to its own package (it is not exported). IMPORTANT

    inside randomFormat, we declared a slice, by not specifying a size (empty bracket), we'll tell Go that the size of this slice is dynamic.
    (it can change.)

    run the code multiple times, to see that it changes every time.




Commands summary:
    - to initialize a module
    > go mod init <example.com/name>

    - to run the code (main function will be executed by default)
    > go run .

    - to aquire dependencies
    > go mod tidy

    - to configure dependencies (not fully introduced yet)
    > go mod edit